# 2024-05-16

See [Instructions](https://15445.courses.cs.cmu.edu/spring2024/project0/) for Project #0.

## Cloning Repository

I cloned the repository with

```sh
git clone https://github.com/cmu-db/bustub.git bustub-clone
```

I renamed it `bustub-clone`.

After that I removed the `.git` directory.

```sh
cd bustub-clone
rm -rf .git
```

## Development Environment

To install the required packages, I ran

```sh
./build_support/packages.sh
```

I note that the bash script installs LLVM 14 using Homebrew.
Before the installation, the LLVM I had was 18. 

Built the project as instructed:

```sh
mkdir build
cd build
cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug ..
make -j 8
```

I replaced `nproc` in the last command with `8` to use 8 cores (total number of CPUs on my device).
It took about 24 seconds to build.

## Testing

Assuming in the project root directory, 
every time to test the project, I ran
```sh
cd build
make orset_test -j 8
./test/orset_test
```

Of course, all tests failed the first time I ran it since I had not implemented anything.

## Coding Style

- Class names: UpperCamelCase
- Class members: snake_case_ with trailing underscores
- Class methods: UpperCamelCase
- Getters: Access class members using getters, which have the `Get` prefix, e.g., `GetChildExecutor` to access the member `child_executor_`.
- Struct names: UpperCamelCase
- Struct members: snake_case_ with trailing underscores
- Enum variables: All CAPS with underscores
- Function arguments: UpperCamelCase


## ORSet Implementation

A Rust implementation: [ORSet](https://github.com/andrewjstone/orset/tree/master)

### Unique ID of the Element

Defined in `orset_driver.h`, class `ORSetDriver` has a member `next_uid_` that will increase from 0. 
Each time its method `GenerateUid` is called, it returns `next_uid_++`, which first increments `next_uid_` and then returns it.

Class `ORSetDriver` should be instantiated only once in the whole program.

